Ed H created this project March 2026 
and pretty much finished 5/9/2026
for Ames Al-Anon
on github.io

1) The name of the top level folder AmesAl-Anon.github.io needs to match the name of the repository exactly
even the case needs to match I think. If they match then github will use the index.html file from the main
part of the git repository and you won't need a subdirectory. Much cleaner. Ed H 5/9/2026

2) The build files are going into the build/ folder but you want the build files to be in the main part of the
repository. Git makes an exact copy of your local folder on github so you need to move the build files
into the main "." part of the repository and then commit to achieve 1) above. 

***

 ### after doing all of the mumbo jumbo below just to have a build folder seperate from the src folder,
 i'm thinking it would be easier to build the files into the /root

 ### but on 5/12/2026

 ### Wait ... I discovered a method to keep the build files separate in the build folder and
 deploy to github and keep them in a separate branch gh-pages

 This is how I did this:

 1) Installed gh-pages: this is a package that will create a branch on github named gh-pages if one is
 not already created. The gh-pages npm package is a Node.js utility that automates the process of publishing static files to a 
 gh-pages branch on GitHub, which is then served by GitHub Pages.  It creates a temporary clone of the repository, copies 
 specified source files (such as a dist or build folder from eleventy app), commits them, and pushes them to the target branch. 

 > npm install --save-dev gh-pages

2) Added a Deploy Script to package.json:

> "scripts": {
>   "deploy": "gh-pages -d build"
> }

3) Set the output dir to build/ in eleventy.js

4) npm run quiet <-- this builds the project to the build folder

5) Deploy to github

> npm run deploy. <-- this git pushes the contents of build folder into the gh-pages branch

6) Configure GitHub Pages: 
In your repository's Settings > Pages
set the source to the gh-pages branch and the folder to /(root). 
Which Ed H did on 5/12/2026

This is now working the way I want it.

 ***

 Ignore the following. This was my first attempt at having my build cake and eating it too.

4) from a terminal do the following

git mv build/* .
        note: if you get an error that there are already files there and is a conflic with the same name do:
git mv -f build/* .
        note: the -f forces the move which should be used sparingly
        note: do not need to move the images folder unless you have changed an image so do the following
git rm -r Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Saturday Thursday-Adult-Child index.html
setopt extended_glob
git mv -f build/^_images .
        this will move everything except anything with _images in it

        If the build/AmesIowaAl-AnonMeetingsList directory exists but contains no files that are tracked by Git (e.g., only untracked files or subdirectories), Git sees it as "empty" and refuses to move it.  
        so add the build files
git add -A build/* .
git status
git mv build/^_images .
git mv -f build/^_images .
    then
git add .
        or
git add -A
        the -A will also delete any files that need deleting
git commit -m "Update Al-Anon site + move build files to root again" 
git push origin main


or you can do all of the above except the first command above git mv build/* .
 from the Visual Studio Code github publish extension too except can't do the build/ mv 

